writing meeting minutes is crucial to be
able to keep track of your work it's a
great way to remember what's being said
in the meetings and what future actions
you have ahead of you maybe you've just
been assigned to write meeting notes on
your next big student group presentation
or project group meeting or maybe you
just want to be better at writing
meeting minutes in general well for both
of these cases this is the video for you
i'm also including some meeting minute
examples so stick to the end of this
video to make sure that you actually see
those i would say that there are
basically four different steps that you
go through when you write meeting notes
which i would say is preparing in
advance for the meeting actually writing
the notes rewriting the notes to make
sure that they are readable and then
storing or sharing it or whatever you
want to do with them after the meeting
so starting with preparing you should be
prepared in advance to make sure that
you can write effective notes just a
couple of minutes of preparing in
advance can make you look so much more
professional and make everything go so
much smoother so i would say that the
first step is just to write the agenda
most good and professional meetings have
an agenda and you should probably do the
meeting based on that agenda so you can
put it in the meeting notes in advance
so that you know the structure for the
whole meeting the next step i would say
is to prepare some kind of template or
do some kind of preparation for how the
meeting notes should look and i'm gonna
switch to my computer in order to show
you what my more formal meeting notes
would look like okay so here you have my
more
formal meeting minute example a lot of
companies have their own meeting minute
templates so check if your company has
one because then it's probably best that
you use that one but if you don't have
one this example is really simple and
easy to create so as you can see i have
meeting minutes in onenote which i think
is really good the first thing you
should do is to
have a title for the meeting minute
this date
is really good to use in onenote because
then you can just change the date there
and the time
and then you have the date and time
ready available you should have both a
title and a date then you should also
have a list of participants if it's a
more formal meeting
if you want to you can do a list just as
i have so you can check the people you
can do it simply by just
having this list and go to the discuss
with person checkbox it's really good to
have the agenda written out if
there has been an agenda sent out to the
meeting in advance you can just add that
there
and then it's really simple to see all
the points that were discussed during
the meeting
while just skimming over the notes if
there's been a powerpoint presentation
to the meeting i usually like to add a
link to it so that it's simple to find
it and goes quickly then of course you
should write out any decisions that were
made during the meeting
and any notes regarding that decision if
there's something that needs explaining
add that into the decision notes so that
you know the rationale behind why the
decision was made and of course any
actions that needs to be done after the
meeting anything that is
in regards to what's going to be done in
the project simple things like
john doe is going to send jane doe the
template for how to do the work all
those small tasks add them into the
actions right which person is
responsible to complete the action and
what the deadline is while you're
writing the notes i would say just use
this
notes field where you have the headline
i usually do the headlines as the agenda
items that way it's just simpler to
follow along and then after the meeting
it's really good to write some kind of
summary about what was said
just highlight the most important things
that were discussed during the meeting
so jumping into how to write more casual
meeting notes
i usually just do it like this i also
write the title of the meeting and then
of course the date and the time
and then i have this sample system
i use the built-in
functions of onenote basically to see
what actions need to be taken any
decisions made and any like questions
for me to look up and the way that i do
it is that i just have the notes
i usually divide it up based on the
agenda items as usual because it's just
the simplest way to do it guys it's so
simple
and then i just write any text and then
as soon as someone comes with an action
i just click ctrl 1 because that's the
shortcut for the to do and then i'll
just write that john
and then some kind of
goal date
there you go
not any more difficult than that okay so
the actual writing i would say that
writing digitally is so much better than
writing in an analog way because
you probably write the meeting in order
to be able to share them or store them
or something like that and that is so
much easier to do if the meeting notes
are digital in some cases there's
probably better to write on paper like
if you were going to an interview or
something or holding an interview it
might not be so nice to throw up a
computer in the face of the other person
but still
i would say we're so used to using our
computer so
it's so much better to just take the
notes digitally from the beginning it
also saves you a lot of time when
rewriting them when you're actually
writing the notes there are a few things
that i believe that you should focus on
when writing and those are first of all
any facts that come up in the meeting
like the project will be delayed by two
weeks or that the client has contacted
one of the people in the meeting asking
for status updates those types of things
facts or things that have happened those
are really good to write down then any
problems that you're facing because it's
really important to lift those and share
them so that everyone is aware of them
and can help everyone else to solve them
one of the most important things to
write down are the decisions that are
made in the meeting especially if the
meeting is based on some kind of
decision forum like a steering group or
some kind of leadership meeting if
you're a project manager you know that
the decisions are basically the most
important thing
and having them written down is also
really important so that you can share
that this is what we agreed on because
people forget so easily why you took
that decision and that the decision
actually was made so
yeah you should also focus on writing
down any actions or next steps that
you're planning on taking any actions
that come up during the meeting that the
person should send the document or that
person y is responsible of contacting
the client again all of those things
should be written down with a clear
deadline in order to make sure that they
do them and then also any questions and
answers because if one person is asking
a question then probably a lot of other
people are wondering the same thing so
capturing the question and capturing the
answer to that question is also really
good to have in the meeting notes when
you're writing the notes in the meeting
you should try to capture as much as you
need in order to rewrite the notes and
for them to be understandable but not
include all the stuff in between and
this is really hard if you're just
starting out but it gets easier with
experience and if you make sure to focus
on those five things that i just said
facts problems decisions actions and
questions and answers the meeting notes
will be much more summarized and
comprehensive at the same time the
rewriting step is really important but i
think a lot of people skip this
especially if the meeting notes are only
for yourself
but the thing here is that when you're
writing notes in the meeting
you will be writing quickly and
you might writing spelling errors and
you might write something that is based
on how people talk and not how you would
write in text and that's a big
difference at least for me my sentences
are not complete sentences when i've
just been in the meeting notes i really
need to rewrite them in order for anyone
else to understand them so you need to
read through your meeting notes clarify
anything that is unclear
spell check
everything you should always rewrite the
meeting notes as soon as you possibly
can after the meeting because then you
have everything fresh in your head
and it makes it so much easier to
remember
what people actually meant with what
they said also try to summarize
everything as good as you can because no
one is going to read long meeting
minutes they are probably just going to
read the basic facts and the summary and
some specific things
if they're actually looking for
something
also if someone is going back looking
through old meeting notes they want to
be able to skim through it as quickly as
possible and
they don't want to skim through heaps of
text so try to make it as short and
concise as you possibly can and then
just like you saw in the template be
very very clear about the decisions that
were made and why they were made and
also any next actions who are
responsible for them and what deadline
do they have make that super clear so no
one can misinterpret that when you've
rewritten the notes then it's time to
share and store them
so you can do this in a couple of
different ways i would say if it's a
casual meeting i would probably just
lift out the decisions and the actions
and maybe a few information points and
just stick them in an email and email
the people that were at the meeting and
then they get the notes in an email
format
if it's a bit more formal you probably
want to have those meeting notes
collected somewhere like in a team site
or sharepoint site so that everyone can
read them when they need to have that
information also when you store the
meeting notes i would say to try to keep
it in a format that is easily searchable
so that is
not word
if you have the meeting notes in a
separate document it will be really hard
to search for the content that is in